so how about testing your color contrast
vision
only a few people can make it to the end
this challenge has three levels
and each next one is tougher than the
previous
get a pen and a piece of paper to write
down your score
for each correct answer you'll get one
point aren't we generous
the results will be at the end of the
video level one
don't worry it's a breeze can you figure
out which square
has a different color
right you are and no it's not going to
be that easy
you were just warming up are the two
halves of this circle the same color
[Music]
they are both the same shade of gray but
it looks different because of the
contrasting backgrounds
how many colors can you see in this
[Music]
image
there are only three hues here green
white and red
oh and we're not counting hugh the
animator he's colorful enough
try to find the odd triangle
yep here it is closer to the bottom
[Music]
how about this picture which triangle is
different from the rest
[Music]
the one on the right is a bit lighter
than the others
are the green circles the same color or
are they different
[Music]
even though the circles in the top half
of the picture look darker
all of them are actually the same
[Music]
look at the squares in the middle and
say whether they are
two different colors or the same
it's the same color but because of the
surrounding squares
you might perceive the central ones as
two different shades of red
and here we go again which triangle is
different
it's the one on the right it's lighter
than the rest
how many colors do you see in the
picture
there are just three black white and
dark green
here that's what it would look like if
the background is the same
[Music]
which part of this pinkish fish is
different from the others
[Music]
the one on the left closer to the fish's
head is a different shade of pink
and is there a triangle that's different
from the rest in this image
yep it's the one at the top
try to figure out which bar a or b
is in the red and green field
the correct answer is a
how many colors can you see in this
picture
just three blue yellow and red the
smaller squares are the same color
even though it may seem they have
different shades
which blue triangle stands out from the
[Music]
rest
ah right it's the one at the bottom
[Music]
look at these two circles and say if
they're the same color
[Music]
yes they are the one on the right seems
to be yellowish
but it's just an illusion
does the blue rectangle in the middle
have a gradient
it doesn't if you remove the background
color which
does have a gradient all that's left is
just a blue block
level two this level is likely to make
you
think oh no nah really
concentrate and don't let color
illusions trick your brain
how many squares are a lighter orange
color
[Music]
two of them are lighter this one and the
one that's closer to the bottom
can you spot the odd triangle
[Music]
this one's different its shade is a bit
lighter than that of the wraps
which gray stripes are darker those on
the left
or the ones on the right
[Music]
believe it or not but all of them are
the same shade
[Music]
do the gray bars in the middle have a
gradient
[Music]
they don't what you see is the effect of
color assimilation
in reality the gray bars are just that
gray
and here we go again which triangle is
the odd one
the one at the bottom has a slightly
different shade
how many shades do the gray squares have
it's the same shade that looks lighter
and darker because of the background
which part is different than the rest
[Music]
the triangle on the left is lighter than
its neighbors
how about finding the odd one in this
image now the picture not me
[Music]
that's tough but this one here closer to
the top
is different how many colors can you see
in this image
[Music]
only three red blue and the same shade
of yellow
which of these four squares are the same
color
i would say a and d and b and c
but no the answer is b and d
which triangle differs from the others
[Music]
that's what i call the next level it
turns out this triangle is the odd one
but no matter how hard i squint i can't
see the difference
is it true that the right side of each
band is darker than the left one
[Music]
nah it's just an illusion the bands
don't have any gradient
which two of these three squares are the
same color
squares two and three are the same shade
of green
are all the dots the same shade of red
well if you place them on a white
background you'll see they're
all the same which triangle is different
[Music]
the one on the left it's a colder shade
of green than the rest
a colder shade of green how chilly
[Music]
which square is lighter a or b
they're precisely the same shade of gray
square b
looks lighter only because of the shadow
cast over it
here let me prove my point tada
level three brace yourself it's gonna be
mind boggling
which is the darkest piece a b or
c
to tell you the truth i failed this one
all these pieces turned out to be the
same color
even though i still find it hard to
believe
how many colors are there in the picture
[Music]
there are yellow and blue stripes and
red faces
the face on the left looks purplish
because your eyes mix the red and blue
colors
and the one on the left looks orange
because you know
yellow and red if you don't believe me
see for yourself
would you believe it if i told you that
the light blue and light green spirals
are actually the same color
[Music]
they only appear to be different in
reality these spirals are
identical
and an oldie but a goodie which triangle
is the odd one
[Music]
it's the one on the right it might be a
tiny bit lighter than the others
which part is darker a or b
surprise surprise these two pieces are
the same color
if you want some proof cover the line
where the two parts meet with your
finger
here you go how many different colors
are these balls
[Music]
the answer is not three don't ask all
the balls are the same
it's the stripes that create the
illusion
do you think these dogs are different or
the same
one of the dogs looks blue the other is
supposedly yellow
but in fact they're the same color is it
some
magic
[Music]
and the question remains unchanged the
same
or different
[Music]
these pieces are exactly the same color
but they look
different because of the contrasting
grids and backgrounds
there are two chess sets the upper one
is white
and the bottom one is black right
wrong the sets are the same color the
only thing that's
changed is the background
which of these tiles are the same color
well i was sure i got it right a looks
like c
doesn't it but no all the tiles are one
in the same color
now i challenge you to find the odd
triangle
[Music]
ah here it is slightly brighter than the
rest
how many colors do you see in this image
i see four but there are just three
colors
yellow blue and red
[Music]
which ball on the coffee table b or c
is the same color as ball a on the floor
even though ball b looks much darker
than ball a
it's the right choice
concentrate this one's going to be
incredibly hard
which part differs from the others
it's the one on the right hey don't ask
me why
and now the best part of any test the
results
if your score is 0 to 15 points your
color contrast sensitivity
could use some work it sometimes happens
when your eyes are tired
wink wink but if you got 16 to 31 points
you haven't exactly aced the test but
your sensitivity to color contrast is
quite high
maybe your screen brightness is wrong or
the lighting in your room is too dim
if you have 32 to 46 points you're great
at distinguishing colors
less than five percent of people can get
that far with so many correct answers
got me